{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19720\viewh11400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 README\
\
RUNNING THE TOOL\
\
run matlab\
cd to the directory where you unpacked the data\
run:\
texteditor\
when it asks you for your name please write it (for example, i would write sanja (not "sanja" or 'sanja', just sanja)\
a big screen should pop up!\
\
ANNOTATION\
\
The idea is to collect ground-truth for text parsing. We need ground-truth for object and scene class, attribute (if there is one), co-reference, preposition (if there is one) and cardinality. \
To help with the instruction let's imagine we are annotating the description:\
\

\b  "There is a small black trash can in the middle of the dining room. Next to it is a cute toy."
\b0 \
\
- We browse through images via <<, >> button in the top left corner of the tool. You can also type the image number in the edit box below.\
- In the top "row" of the tool you see an area containing names of object classes we are interested in, as well as scene classes. For annotation we are only interested in annotating *these* nouns in the descriptions. So in our sentence above we are interested in "trash can" (because it is a synonym of "garbage bin" which is our class of interest), "dining room" (because it is our scene of interest), but 
\b not
\b0  "toy", since it's not our class of interest.\
- To annotate ground-truth for noun, read the sentences in the big blue space in the tool. Notice that each word is made as a button and some words have three rows of buttons/edit boxes below. \
- The first button under a noun in the sentence is the object/scene class. If the noun talks about an object/noun that isn't of our interest, then it should be "background", otherwise we need to change it to be of correct label. In order to change the class label, you need to click on this first button. You will now see that the object class and scene boxes in the tool turn yellow. When they are yellow you can click on any of the object/scene classes. By clicking on the correct class, you will see that it appears in the button below the noun. So this is a success.  Please click on 'Save' in the tool as many times as you can remember, to prevent losing info. ;) If you clicked on the button below the noun but finally decided not to select a new label, just click on this button again. Only once nothing is yellow in the tool, you can proceed. For objects that are composed of 
\b two words
\b0  (like "trash can"), please annotate 
\b both 
\b0 words with the correct class.\
- The second button under the noun is an "attribute". This is size or color of the object (if there is some information in the sentence about this noun). For the example below, the noun trash can has two attributes, "small" and "black". To annotate this, you have to click on the attribute button, which will make the full sentence area appear yellow. Now you need to click on the word (button) "small" in the sentence. To add "black", click on the attribute button again and now click on the word (button) "black". For object composed of two words (like trash can), you can annotate the attribute for any of the two words (not necessarily for both). If you made a mistake and you want to reset, please just 
\b double click
\b0  on the attribute button and it will become 
\b cleared
\b0 .\
- The last button is a little bit more tricky. It is about co-reference. Co-reference means that the description is referring to the same "entity" again. In the example above, "next to -->it<--", "it" again refers to the 
\b same
\b0  trash can as is in the previous sentence. If for example, the second sentence would be "Next to the can is a cute toy", here "can" is also again referring to the same object. However, if the second sentence was "There is also a white trash can in the corner.", this trash can is 
\b another object
\b0  and is thus 
\b not
\b0  a co-reference.\
So what we ask you is to link the noun to all of it's co-reference words in all of the sentences. You can do this by clicking on the third button under "can" (or "trash", whatever you prefer). When the area turns yellow, please click on the word of co-reference. Please repeat the process until you have link all the co-reference to this word. If you made a mistake and you want to reset, please just 
\b double click
\b0  on the co-reference button and it will become 
\b cleared
\b0 .\
- To annotate prepositions, you can find a box in the upper right corner of the annotation tool. Again our guesses are already there. For any incorrect guess, please click on "-" on the left side of the preposition -- this will clear it. If you want to add another one, please click "+". If you want to change a certain word in the preposition, please click on the word, and when the sentence area become yellow, please click on the correct word.\
- 
\b Cardinality doesn't work right now! (bug)
\b0 \
- There is also an action box in the tool, but you do not have to annotate it.\

\b - Please click SAVE and move to the next image!}