{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16260\viewh10960\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 (email fidler@cs.toronto.edu for questions)\
\
README for DESCRIPTION ANNOTATION TOOL\
\
Write 'texteditor' in Matlab to view annotations. \
\
You can browse through image by pressing << or >> in the top left panel. You can also directly go to an image by typing its number into the text field.\
\
In order to save your changes click 'Annotations' in the 'Save' tab. Use 'Undo changes' to revert to the old annotation (the last stored annotation).\
\
DESCRIPTIONS\
------------------------\
\
To browse through descriptions press << and >> in the Descriptions tab. You can add a new description with Add, and remove it with Remove. \
\
For a specific description, you see a panel with buttons and little boxes which are the alignments of words in text to the object ids in the image. You can either manually write in the ids for a specific word, or click on the word button and then click on all boxes that the word refers to (after you're done you have to click 'enter' button on the keyboard). If you want to clear all the assignments, click the CLEAR button. Note that this interface assumes you annotate the objects beforehand. The next paragraphs describe how to do that.\
\
OBJECT ANNOTATIONS\
----------------------------\
All the images already contain the object annotation available from NYU. If you want to add a new object, you can also do it with the annotation tool. << >> allows you to browse through the objects. Select allows you to choose an object by clicking on its segmentation mask.\
Click Add to add a new object. Then 'refine segmentation' if you want to add a segmentation. Under 'class' edit box, enter the class of the object. \
The radio buttons on the right specify what annotation is displayed on the image.\
\
The panels on the right also allow you to label the colors and sizes of the objects. Note that some of the objects are already annotated with color (but not size). }